---
title: 'CRIC: Confidence Reflex Intuition Consistency'
permalink: /cric/
layout: post
comments: true
tags: opinions
---
I went into the basketball court to play last week after a long time. That was maybe 2 years ago and the last time before that some other 2 years. There were a few times I'd gone and just made some hoops while a playing team is on a timeout but this time I really played and it was for just 10 minutes.
<!--more-->

That 10 minutes made me learn more about myself. In my software development journey I've had to try new technologies (tools, frameworks, libraries) and I've recently been suffering from [neophobia][1] (Fear of trying new things) but I try anyway. I vehemently defeat the inertia to not do things and when beaten once it becomes a little easier with a lesser mental barrier.

The neophobia is caused by lack of **confidence** and that was exactly what I saw in myself on the basketball court. I got the ball just once from a pass and I was quite choked. I could have tried to drive-in like I would have some years ago but I just stood for a while then I looked at the rim and thought I could make a hoop and  reconsidered that I'd only just gotten in the game and may piss the other guys off if I missed my shot. Eventually I passed and it was my biggest action in the game.

I saw a team mate in need for a screen and I only realized I should have gone for a screen after the ball was stolen by the opponent even though he didn't ask. My game **reflexes** weren't with me and I lacked the **intuition** to do the right things. It was the mental culprit for me not making a shot and not giving that screen.

A concerned lad couldn't help but notice how bad I'd gotten since the last time he saw me play and asked "Have you been [thunderstrucked][2]?" which I replied to saying I'm yet to find who switched my talents but I knew to myself that I'd only let my talent slip away by not being **consistent**. I was a good player even though not the best. I could still use some coaching and more training back then but I always stood out in games I played. I've become a ghost now.

I got back home to compensate for the basketball failure by getting a few projects done on my computer. I'd realized that the reason for my neophobia is lack of CRIC (Confidence, Reflex, Intuition, and Consistency) *pronounced creek*. This isn't an easy thig to gain in any field especially software development where [imposter syndrome][3] thrives but with some will-power I got the CRIC.

I sought to demo some libraries I found interesting and it's been easy trying different things on them. Now's time for me to go get the CRIC in basketball games too.

[1]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neophobia
[2]:http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2041488/
[3]:https://medium.com/the-year-of-the-looking-glass/the-imposter-syndrome-9e23e2326d88
